Our company, Worx International Inc., has been researching PHP server side
validation. This research was initiated because client side validation simply
doesn't work consistently. All client side validation is based on Javascript.
That applies as well to Ajax, and Javascript Frameworks (like Mootools,
jQuery, etc.). The problem with client side validation is that to deliver
garbage to your inbox and hack your forms, all users have to do is disable
Javascript in their browser. There are ways around this such as using
Javascript to echo the Submit button (ie. no Javascript, no Submit button),
but these are obtrusive and counter-productive for those users who
legitimately do not have Javascript or disable Javascript for personal
reasons. The only solution that is effective and works all the time is a
server side validation strategy.

We've found a number of very good server side validation products. Here's a
summary of the PHP scripts we found:

----------------

Autoform - http://www.greaterscope.net/projects/Autoform
License: MIT.

Recently I have been working with the developer of PHP Autoform.

Autoform is quite unique ... it is both a form generator, and validates user
input on the server-side.

It works quite well with PHPMailer-FE and has unlimited potential to secure
your forms and eliminate, or greatly minize, spam and junk mail from your
website forms.

To show the capabilities of Autoform, I have put up several sample forms of my
own, plus the example forms from the Autoform package. Please have a look at:

http://www.worxware.com/autoform/

... please note this are very basic sample pages to show Autoform in action. 

I also have several modifications and a client-side validator running with the
samples. If you have need of customization to Autoform, I would encourage you
to contact the developer through the website
http://www.greaterscope.net/projects/Autoform.

----------------

HTML Form - http://stefangabos.blogspot.com
License: unknown, but LICENSE file says you can use it for personal or
commercial applications
License note 1: the author includes a BUT ... only if you send him the link
where you are using the code
License note 2: the software is distributed with X Templates (LGPL/BSD), and
XSS Clean (from the PHP Code Igniter product, with permission)

HTML Form is the most robust of all the products tested. It is both a form
generator, and validates user input on the server side. It is unique in the
products tested that it also uses X templates that can render forms from very
basic to extremely complex layouts.

HTML Form is effective. I have not found any condition in which HTML form does
not work. 

----------------

.... and a quick note about clonefish: we have not included clonefish here
because the license type for the free cannot be determined. If we are not able
to determine our rights in using the software, it isn't worth downloading. You
may wish to look into it, though at http://www.phpformclass.com/.

----------------

Summary:

As a server-side validators for forms, these product should have your
interest. It's the ideal way of dealing with hackers and spammers accessing
your forms for their dirty payloads and filling your inbox with garbage. The
beauty of this solution is that regardless of the user's Javascript settings
in their browser, validation takes place at the server BEFORE the form gets
processed.

Enjoy!
Andy
----------------
